=head1 NAME

Form.Element.Resize - Unobtrusive javascript class for make a standard form field resizable with the mouse

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 <!-- XHTML page -->
 <form action="http://host.domain.tld/cgi-bin/script">
  <label for="message">Message:</label><br />
  <textarea id="message" name="message"></textarea>
 </form>

 // javascript code
 new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message' });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This nice class implement some methods for add a mouse-driven resize feature on form fields such as text inputs, textareas and select controls.
Clicking and dragging the borders or the corners of the form element will resize it while double clicking inside the element will restore its
original dimensions (this does not work with select elements in Internet Explorer and Firefox).
It is also possible to specify the maximum width and height allowed when the element is resized.

Tested under Firefox 2, Internet Explorer 6/7, Opera 9.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 B<new()>

Class constructor, returns a new Form.Element.Resize object.

=head3 Parameters

=over 3

=item B<oProps>

Object literal where must be specified the element id on which activate the resize feature and other optional properties that overwrites the defaults.

Properties are:

=over 3

=item C<elementId>

ID of the element on which enable the resize feature. B<mandatory!>

=item C<resizeType>

Type of resize, shortcuts are auto, horizontal and vertical (default is auto).

- auto: resizable borders and corners are set automatically depending on the form element type.
  text input and non-multiple select have only the right border draggable;
  textarea and multple select have the right and bottom borders and the bottom-right corner draggable.

- horizontal: all field types have only the right border draggable.

- vertical: all field types have only the bottom border draggable.

It is also possible to specify each border/corner to activate by passing an object literal with one or more of the following keys:

n, ne, e, se, s, sw, w, nw

All are initially disabled, so for example, to activate only the bottom-right corner the property must be initialized like this:

 new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message', resizeType: { se: 1 } });

=item C<maxWidth>

Maximum width allowed for the element.
When this value is reached the horizontal resize stops.
By default this property is not set, so there is not limit to the resize.

 new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message', maxWidth: 400 });

=item C<maxHeight>

Maximum height allowed for the element.
When this value is reached the vertical resize stops.
By default this property is not set, so there is not limit to the resize.

 new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message', maxHeight: 350 });

=item C<containerId>

ID of the generated container element, useful for add some CSS rules on it.

=item C<containerClass>

Class of the generated container element, useful for add some CSS rules on it.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 <!-- you can initialize the class within your XHTML page like this -->
 <form action="http://host.domain.tld/cgi-bin/script">
  <label for="message">Message:</label><br />
  <textarea id="message" name="message"></textarea>
  <script type="text/javascript">new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message', containerClass: 'resizable' });</script>
 </form>


 // or in a more unobtrusive way put the new in an included javascript file.
 // be sure to call the new when the page is loaded!
 // a cross-browser way may be this
 if( document.addEventListener )
 {
     document.addEventListener(
       'load',
       function() { new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message', containerClass: 'resizable' }); },
       false
     );

     return true;
 }
 else if( document.attachEvent )
 {
     return document.attachEvent(
       'onload',
       function() { new Form.Element.Resize({ elementId: 'message', containerClass: 'resizable' }); }
     );
 }

=head1 SEE ALSO

Official web page at L<http://www.sabadelli.it/edoardo/projects/javascript/form.element.resize>

JSAN L<http://openjsan.org/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Edoardo Sabadelli - L<http://www.sabadelli.it/edoardo>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007 Edoardo Sabadelli. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic license.


=cut
